# Contemporary Issues In Data: WhatsApp and its New 2021 Privacy Policies
In this document, I discuss the consequences WhatsApp's announcement about their new privacy policies released at the begining of 2021. I present how some may have viewed it as simply a means of miscommunication and how some viewed it as a big warning for greater personal cyber security.

## Article 1
In the New York Times' [The Truth About Your WhatsApp Data](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/13/technology/whatsapp-data.html), writer Shira Ovide explains why there was a backlash against WhatsApp in January 2021. With new privacy policies announced, Ovide suggests that people mistakenly believed that WhatsApp users will be forced to hand over their personal data to Facebook, which already owns WhatsApp. Ovide links this confusion to some bad communications but also the company's general mistrust with data-protection laws that have been put at test over the past few years.

Ovide proceeds to establish a very crucial point which is already since 2016, the messaging app has actually been sharing information with Facebook, usually unknowingly. For example, Facebook knows which phone number is tied to a WhatsApp user or how often the app is opened or even an estimated user location based on the internet connection. It is explained that Facebook uses this information to make sure WhatsApp works properly. In other words, Ovide tries to show that general data being shared with companies has become more normalized and one may have to one day choose to give up control over what happens to one's personal information, or to not use the service at all.

## Article 2
In Business Insider's [WhatsApp says you shouldn't worry about it sharing personal data with Facebook. Experts say you should switch to 'highly trusted' Signal.](https://www.businessinsider.com/whatsapp-experts-users-worry-about-sharing-personal-data-with-facebook-2021-1), the article first addresses the consequences that this announcement may have brought to WhatsApp. With these new policies announced, a large amount of WhatsApp users started switching to the company's rivals such as Signal and Telegram. An interesting and important detail about the policy announcement the article brings up that the New York Times article did not, however, is the fact that when the policy came out, it was also announced that if users did not accept the new terms and conditions by February 8, they would be kicked off the app, adding much more density to this change.

The article also incorportes very important viewpoints from experts upon this subject who may very much not view this occurence as lightly as the New York Times writer. For example, Alan Woodward, computer scientist states that the mere fact WhatsApp shares any sort of personal data with Facebook is already concerning, having a business model that uses daata related to customers to make money. Professor Eerke Boiten, director of the cyber technology institute at De Montfort University in Leicester states that he expects data from now will be shared "whenever and wherever [Facebook and WhatsApp] can get away with it." In fact, both specialists end by saying that they would highly recommend users switch to safer, alternative messaging apps.

